Initial draft of mitigating XSS in Angular - Post 4 (#1210)
oktadeveloper/okta-blog: _source/_posts/2022-07-21-angular-security-xss.md

  public ngAfterViewInit(): void {
    
    const cleaned = this.sanitizer.sanitize(SecurityContext.HTML, this.attack);
    this.renderer.setProperty(this.el.nativeElement, 'innerHTML', cleaned);
  }
}
```

Now you'll have the image without the potentially shady code.

### Consider Trusted Types

One more built-in security mechanism in Angular is setting up and using a Content Security Policy (CSP). CSPs are a specific HTTP security header we covered in the [first post](first post link) to help set up foundational security mechanisms.

Angular has built-in support for defining policies for a CSP called [Trusted Types](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Content-Security-Policy/trusted-types). Trusted Types are a great way to add extra XSS security guards to your Angular app but isn't supported across all the major browsers yet. If you are interested in learning more about setting up the Trusted Types CSP for SPAs, check out this great post from the Auth0 blog - [Securing SPAs with Trusted Types](https://auth0.com/blog/securing-spa-with-trusted-types/). 

## Learn more about XSS, Trusted Types, and creating applications using Angular

> This series taught us about web security, common web attacks, and how Angular's built-in security mechanisms protect us from accidental attacks.

Author: @havi I may change this sentence depending on if I feel like I can get to a post about authorization and access control in Angular. It will depend on how much progress I make on my presentations. 😩 😰

Reviewer: got it!

Author: I will make this a stand-alone post (if I do one), so this series will end here.

 * global functions that evaluate and/or run code, such as `eval()`, `setTimeout()`

As you can see, there are many vectors for the vulnerability. Many of these sinks have legitimate use cases when building dynamic web applications. Since the sinks are necessary for web app functionality, we must use trusted data by escaping and sanitizing it.

> This is still a high-level summary. The fine print is that XSS vulnerabilities can be pretty sneaky in the different ways the attack can occur.

There are different XSS attacks, each with a slightly different attack vector. We'll briefly cover how three attacks work.

### Stored XSS

In this flavor of XSS, the attack is persisted somewhere, like in a database. We recapped _stored XSS_ in the example above, where an agitator's terrible comment with the `script` tag persists in the database and ruins someone else's day by showing the unfriendly comment in an alert.

### Reflected XSS

In this attack, the malicious code sneaks in through the HTTP request, usually through URL parameters. Suppose the K-Drama site takes a search term via a URL parameter, such as:

```
https://myfavekdramas.com/dramas?search=crash+landing+on+you
```

> The site then takes the search terms and displays them back to the user while calling out to the back-end to run the search.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The site then takes the search terms and displays them back to the user while calling out to the backend to run the search.
```

But what if an agitator constructs a URL like this?

```
https://myfavekdramas.com/dramas?search=<img src=1 onerror="alert('Doh!')"/>
```

You may think that you'd never navigate to a link like that! Who would?! But let's remember, in a previous post, you _did_ click the link in your spam email to send money to your high school sweetheart. This isn't meant as a judgment; no one is immune to clicking fishy links. Also, agitators are pretty tricksy. They might use URL shorteners to obscure the risk. 

### DOM-based XSS

> In this attack, the agitator takes advantage of Web APIs. The attack occurs entirely within the SPA, and it's pretty much identical to Reflective XSS. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this attack, the agitator takes advantage of Web APIs. The attack occurs entirely within the SPA, and it's pretty much identical to _reflected XSS_. 
```
should be 'reflected' not reflective, right? I also italicized instead of capitalizing

  template: `
    <p *ngFor="let comment of comments | async">
      {{comment}}
    <p>
  `
})
export class CommentsComponent implements OnInit {
  public comments: Observable<string[]>;
  
  constructor(private commentsService: CommentsService) { }

  public ngOnInit(): void {
    this.comments = this.commentsService.getComments();
  }
}
```
{% endraw %}

The XSS attack vector works only if the web app treats all values as trustworthy and appends them directly to the template, such as when the web app doesn't escape or sanitize values first. Luckily, Angular automatically does both.

When you add values through interpolation in templates (using the {% raw %}`{{}}`{% endraw %} syntax), Angular automatically escapes the data. So the comment:

```
<a href="javascript:alert(\'Crash Landing on You stinks!\')">Click to win a free prize!</a>
```

displays exactly like what's written above as text. It's still a terrible comment and unfriendly to "Crash Landing on You" fans, but it doesn't add the anchor element to the app. This is awesome because even if the attack were more malicious, it still wouldn't perform any actions.

### Angular automatically sanitizes values

> Let's say we want to display the comments preserving any safe markup a user enters. We already have two malicious comments to start us off on shaky grounds:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's say we want to display the comments preserving any safe markup a user enters. We already have two malicious comments to start us off on shaky ground:
```

1. `<a href="javascript:alert(\'Crash Landing on You stinks!\')">Click to win a free prize!</a>`
2. `<img src=1 onerror="alert('Doh!')"/>`

> And a K-Drama fan adds a new comment with safe markup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then a K-Drama fan adds a new comment with safe markup.
```

Then we'll mark the video URL as trusted and bind it in the template. Your `VideoComponent` changes to this:

```ts
@Component({
  selector: 'app-video',
  template: `
    <iframe [src]="safeLinky" width="800px" height="450px"
  `
})
export class VideoComponent {

  // pretend this is from an external source
  public videoId = '12345';
  public safeLinky!: SafeResourceUrl;

  constructor(private sanitizer: DomSanitizer) {
    this.safeLinky = sanitizer.bypassSecurityTrustResourceUrl(`//videolink/embed/${this.videoId}`)
  }
}
```

Now you'll be able to show trailers of the K-Dramas on your site in an `iframe` in a much safer way.

> It can't be stressed enough. Ensure you trust the values before bypassing the out-of-the-box security protections you get from Angular!

> Great! So we're done! Not quite. There are a couple of things to note.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Great! So we're done? Not quite. There are a couple of things to note.
```

### Use ahead-of-time (AOT) compilation for extra security

> Angular's AOT compilation has extra security measures for injection attacks like XSS. AOT compilation is highly recommended for production code and has been the default compilation method since Angular v9. Not only is it more secure, but it also increases performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Angular's AOT compilation has extra security measures for injection attacks like XSS. AOT compilation is highly recommended for production code and has been the default compilation method since Angular v9. Not only is it more secure, but it also improves performance.
```

For example, you won't have Angular's built-in protections if you try to dynamically construct templates combining HTML with data using string concatenation or have an API whip up a payload with a template you somehow inject into the app. Your clever hacks with dynamic components might cause you security woes. 

### Beware of constructing DOM elements without using Angular templates

Any funny business you might try using `ElementRef` or `Renderer2` is the perfect way to cause security issues. For example, you can pwn yourself if you try to do something like this.

```ts
@Component({
  selector: 'app-yikes',
  template: `
    <div #whydothis></div>
  `
})
export class YikesComponent implements AfterViewInit {

  @ViewChild('whydothis') public el!: ElementRef<HTMLElement>;
  
  // pretend this is from an external source
  public attack = '<img src=1 onerror="alert(\'YIKES!\')"';

  constructor(private renderer: Renderer2) { }

  public ngAfterViewInit(): void {
    
    // danger below!
    this.el.nativeElement.innerHTML = this.attack;
    this.renderer.setProperty(this.el.nativeElement, 'innerHTML', this.attack);
  }
}
```

> Something like this might be tempting in a fancy custom directive, but think again! Besides, interacting directly with the DOM like this isn't the best practice in Angular, evenn beyond any security issues it might have. Always prefer creating and using Angular templates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Something like this might be tempting in a fancy custom directive, but think again! Besides, interacting directly with the DOM like this isn't the best practice in Angular, even beyond any security issues it might have. It's always wise to prefer creating and using Angular templates.
```

Let's say you cook up a legitimate need to use `ElementRef` or `Render2` to build out the DOM in code. You can sanitize the value you add to the DOM using the method `sanitize()`. The `sanitize()` method takes two parameters, the security context for the sanitization and the value. The security context is an enumeration matching the security context listed previously.

If we redo the `YikesComponent` to explicitly sanitize, the code looks like this.

```ts
@Component({
  selector: 'app-way-better',
  template: `
    <div #waybetter></div>
  `
})
export class WayBetterComponent implements AfterViewInit {

  @ViewChild('waybetter') public el!: ElementRef<HTMLElement>;
  
  // pretend this is from an external source
  public attack = '<img src=1 onerror="alert(\'YIKES!\')"';

  constructor(private renderer: Renderer2, private sanitizer: DomSanitizer) { }

  public ngAfterViewInit(): void {
    
    const cleaned = this.sanitizer.sanitize(SecurityContext.HTML, this.attack);
    this.renderer.setProperty(this.el.nativeElement, 'innerHTML', cleaned);
  }
}
```

Now you'll have the image without the potentially dangerous code tagging along for the ride.

### Consider Trusted Types

> One more built-in security mechanism in Angular is setting up and using a Content Security Policy (CSP). CSPs are a specific HTTP security header we covered in the [first post](first post link) to help set up foundational security mechanisms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One more built-in security mechanism in Angular is setting up and using a Content Security Policy (CSP). CSPs are a specific HTTP security header we covered in the [first post](/blog/2022/07/06/spa-web-security) to help set up foundational security mechanisms.
```

Author: Thanks!

---
layout: blog_post
title: "Protect Your Angular App from Cross-Site Scripting"
author: alisa-duncan
by: advocate
communities: [security,javascript]
description: "Dive into Cross-site Scripting (XSS) mitigation strategies and how to protect your Angular application from XSS attacks."
tags: [security, angular]
tweets:
- ""
- ""
- ""
image:
type: awareness
---

In the last post of this SPA security series, we covered Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF) and how Angular helps you with a mitigation technique. 

|Posts in the SPA web security series|
| --- |
| 1. [Defend Your SPA from Security Woes](/blog/2022/07/06/spa-web-security) |
| 2. [Defend Your SPA from Common Web Attacks](/blog/2022/07/08/spa-web-securty-csrf-xss) |
| 3. [Protect Your Angular App from Cross-Site Request Forgery](/blog/2022/07/19/angular-security-csrf) |
| 4. **Protect Your Angular App from Cross-Site Scripting** |

Next, we'll dive into Cross-Site Scripting (XSS) and look at the built-in security guards you get when using Angular.

{% include toc.md %}

## Cross-Site Scripting (XSS) protection

> In the [second post of this series](/blog/2022/07/08/spa-web-securty-csrf-xss), we covered an overview of Cross-Site Scripting (XSS). In summary, you learned that XSS occurs when code pollutes data and your application doesn't take safeguards to prevent the code from running.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the [second post of this series](/blog/2022/07/08/spa-web-securty-csrf-xss), we presented an overview of Cross-Site Scripting (XSS). In summary, you learned that XSS occurs when code pollutes data and your application doesn't provide safeguards to prevent the code from running.
```
nitpick: because "cover an overview" seems a little dissonant. also the app needs to give safeguards rather than take them.

Let's recap the example attack vector.

> > Imagine an overly dramatic but otherwise innocent scenario like this

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Imagine an overly dramatic but otherwise innocent scenario like this:
```

> 1. A website allows you to add comments about your favorite K-Drama.
> 2. An agitator adds the comment `<script>alert('Crash Landing on You stinks!');</script>`.
> 3. That terrible comment saves as is to the database.
> 4. A K-Drama fan opens the website.
> 5. The terrible comment is added to the website, appending the `<script></script>` tag to the DOM.
> 6. The K-Drama fan is outraged by the JavaScript alert saying their favorite K-Drama, [Crash Landing on You](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt10850932/), stinks.

> In this example, we have a `<script>` element and glossed over the steps for appending the element to the DOM. In reality, there's a variety of ways that polluted data gets pulled into the application. The main culprits are adding untrusted data in [injection sinks](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Trusted_Types_API#injection_sinks) - a Web API function that allows us to add dynamic content to our applications. Examples of sinks include, but aren't limited to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, we have a `<script>` element and glossed over the steps for appending the element to the DOM. In reality, polluted data gets pulled into the application in various ways. Adding untrusted data in an [injection sink](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Trusted_Types_API#injection_sinks) - a Web API function that allows us to add dynamic content to our applications - is a major culprit. Examples of sinks include, but aren't limited to:
```
clarity

 * methods to append to the DOM such as  `innerHTML`, `outerHTML`
 * approaches that load external resources or navigate to external sites via a URL, such as `src` or `href` for HTML elements and `url` property on styles
 * event handlers, such as `onmouseover` and `onerror` with an invalid `src` value
 * global functions that evaluate and/or run code, such as `eval()`, `setTimeout()`

> As you can see, there are many vectors for the vulnerability. Many of these sinks have legitimate use cases when building dynamic web applications. Since these sinks are necessary for web app functionality, we must use trusted data by escaping and sanitizing it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As you can see, there are many vectors for the vulnerability. Many of these sinks have legitimate use cases when building dynamic web applications. Since the sinks are necessary for web app functionality, we must use trusted data by escaping and sanitizing it.
```

> > This is still a high-level summary. The fine print is that XSS vulnerabilities can be pretty sneaky with the different ways the attack can occur.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> This is still a high-level summary. The fine print is that XSS vulnerabilities can be pretty sneaky in the different ways the attack can occur.
```

There are different XSS attacks, each with a slightly different attack vector. We'll briefly cover how three attacks work.

### Stored XSS

> In this flavor of XSS, the attack is persisted somewhere like in a database. Stored XSS is the example recapped above where an agitator's terrible comment with the `script` tag persists in the database and then ruins someone else's day by showing the unfriendly comment in an alert.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this flavor of XSS, the attack is persisted somewhere, like in a database. We recapped *stored XSS* in the example above, where an agitator's terrible comment with the `script` tag persists in the database and ruins someone else's day by showing the unfriendly comment in an alert.
```
changed passive to active voice

### Reflected XSS

> This attack is where the malicious code sneaks in through the HTTP request, usually through URL parameters. Suppose the K-Drama site takes a search term via a URL parameter, such as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this attack, the malicious code sneaks in through the HTTP request, usually through URL parameters. Suppose the K-Drama site takes a search term via a URL parameter, such as:
```
active voice

```
https://myfavekdramas.com/dramas?search=crash+landing+on+you
```

The site then takes the search terms and displays them back to the user while calling out to the back-end to run the search.

But what if an agitator constructs a URL like this?

```
https://myfavekdramas.com/dramas?search=<img src=1 onerror="alert('Doh!')"/>
```

> You may think that you'd never navigate to a link like that! Who would?! But let's remember, in a previous post, you _did_ click the link in your spam email to send money to your high school sweetheart. Pointing this out is not judgment but merely pointing out the past behavior of clicking fishy links. Also, agitators are pretty tricksy. They might use URL shorteners to obscure it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You may think that you'd never navigate to a link like that! Who would?! But let's remember, in a previous post, you _did_ click the link in your spam email to send money to your high school sweetheart. This isn't meant as a judgment; no one is immune to clicking fishy links. Also, agitators are pretty tricksy. They might use URL shorteners to obscure the risk. 
```
clarifying

### DOM-based XSS

> In this attack, the agitator takes advantage of Web APIs and occurs entirely within the SPA. This attack is pretty much identical to Reflective XSS. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this attack, the agitator takes advantage of Web APIs. The attack occurs entirely within the SPA, and it's pretty much identical to Reflective XSS. 
```
resolves syntax issue in the first sentence, since "occurs" refers to the attack, not to the agitator.

Let's say our application depends on an external resource—the app embeds an `<iframe>` for showing trailers for the K-Dramas and sets the `iframe`'s `src` attribute to an external site. So our code might look like this.

```html
<iframe src="{resourceURL}" />
```

We usually call out to the third-party service to get the URLs for the source, but agitators have infiltrated this third-party service and now control the resource URLs returned, making our code look like this.

```html
<iframe src="javascript:alert('Boo!')" />
```

Well, darn it, we've got some problems.

> ## XSS Support in Angular

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## XSS support in Angular
```

> Fortunately, Angular has a lot of built-in security protections. Angular treats all values as suspicious and untrusted by default, which is incredibly helpful because the framework automatically guards us against unintentionally creating vulnerabilities in our applications. Angular automatically removes any `script` tags so we won't have to worry about the original hypothentical example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fortunately, Angular has a lot of built-in security protections. It treats all values as suspicious and untrusted by default, which is incredibly helpful because the framework automatically guards us against unintentionally creating vulnerabilities in our applications. Angular automatically removes any `script` tags so we won't have to worry about the original hypothentical example.
```
avoids the repetition of "Angular" to open consecutive sentences

Let's see some examples of how Angular protects us against XSS.

### Angular automatically escapes values

> Web applications implement comment features like in the Stored XSS example by calling an API to get a list of comments, then adds the comments to the template. In Angular, an extremely simplified comments component might look something like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Web applications implement comment features like in the Stored XSS example by calling an API to get a list of comments, then add the comments to the template. In Angular, an extremely simplified comments component might look something like this:
```
verb tense alignment

{% raw %}
```ts
@Component({
  selector: 'app-comments'
  template: `
    <p *ngFor="let comment of comments | async">
      {{comment}}
    <p>
  `
})
export class CommentsComponent implements OnInit {
  public comments: Observable<string[]>;
  
  constructor(private commentsService: CommentsService) { }

  public ngOnInit(): void {
    this.comments = this.commentsService.getComments();
  }
}
```
{% endraw %}

> The XSS attack vector works only if the web app treats all values as trustworthy and appends them directly to the template, such as when the web app doesn't escape or sanitize values first. Luckily for us, Angular automatically does both for us.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The XSS attack vector works only if the web app treats all values as trustworthy and appends them directly to the template, such as when the web app doesn't escape or sanitize values first. Luckily, Angular automatically does both.
```
simplifying

> When you add values through interpolation in templates (using the {% raw %}`{{}}`{% endraw %} syntax), Angular automatically escapes the data. So the comment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you add values through interpolation in templates (using the {% raw %}`{{}}`{% endraw %} syntax), Angular automatically escapes the data. So the comment:
```

```
<a href="javascript:alert(\'Crash Landing on You stinks!\')">Click to win a free prize!</a>
```

displays exactly like what's written above as text. It's still a terrible comment and unfriendly to "Crash Landing on You" fans, but it doesn't add the anchor element to the app. This is awesome because even if the attack were more malicious, it still wouldn't perform any actions.

### Angular automatically sanitizes values

Let's say we want to display the comments preserving any safe markup a user enters. We already have two malicious comments to start us off on shaky grounds:
1. `<a href="javascript:alert(\'Crash Landing on You stinks!\')">Click to win a free prize!</a>`
2. `<img src=1 onerror="alert('Doh!')"/>`

And a K-Drama fan adds a new comment with safe markup.

```html
<strong>It's a wonderful drama! The best!</strong>
```

Because the `CommentsComponent` uses interpolation to populate the comments, the comments will display in the browser in text like this:

> {% img blog/angular-security-xss/interpolation.jpg alt:"Screenshot of comments as shown in the browser. Is it the text of each comment include code blocks as text." width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

Reviewer: img is broken in preview mode... or maybe that's as intended.

Author: It's intended. It's part of the exploit to force the image's `onerror` code to run

As we learned earlier, sanitizing removes suspicious code while keeping safe code. Angular automatically strips out unsafe attributes from safe elements. You will see a warning in the console letting you know Angular cleaned the content up. 

{% img blog/angular-security-xss/console-warning.jpg alt:"Screenshot of DevTools console showing a warning. The warning says, 'WARNING: sanitizing HTML stripped some content, see https\://g.co/ng/security#xss'" width:"800" %}{: .center-image }

By handling values "the Angular way," our application is well protected against security woes! Success!

![Giphy of Success baby meme](https://media.giphy.com/media/Q81NcsY6YxK7jxnr4v/giphy.gif)

### Bypassing Angular's security checks

>🚨 **Here be dragons!** 🚨
> 

> >Be careful about bypassing the built-in security mechanism; read this section carefully if you need to! 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>Be careful about bypassing the built-in security mechanism; if you need to, read this section carefully:  
```
removes some ambiguity

What if you need to bind trusted values that Angular thinks are unsafe? You can mark values as trusted and bypass the security checks.

Let's look at the example of the image with an error handler. Instead of the value coming from an agitator, let's say there's a legitimate need to bind the image with dynamic error handling.

> > **Sidenote** - there are better ways to handle images with error handling in Angular if your application doesn't need to be quite so dynamic. Consider using an image element and bind to `(error)` instead, or even `HostListener`, or there are many tutorial examples of handling it cleanly using a Directive. Indeed, there are lots of better options. You should always prefer the standard Angular way using Angular building blocks. The code will be way easier to support.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Sidenote** - there are better ways to handle images with error handling in Angular if your application doesn't need to be quite so dynamic. Consider using an image element and bind to `(error)` instead, or even `HostListener`. Or, there are many tutorial examples of handling it cleanly using a Directive. Indeed, there are lots of better options. You should always prefer the standard Angular way using Angular building blocks. The code will be way easier to support.
```
2 shorter sentences

Let's look at an example with a resource URL, such as the DOM-based XSS example where we bind the URL of the `iframe` source. 

Your component code might look like this
```ts
@Component({
  selector: 'app-video',
  template: `
    <iframe [src]="linky" width="800px" height="450px"
  `
})
export class VideoComponent {

  // pretend this is from an external source
  public linky = '//videolink/embed/12345';
}
```

Angular will stop you right there. 🛑

You'll see an error in the console saying unsafe values can't be used in a resource URL. Angular recognizes you're trying to add a resource URL and is alarmed you're doing something dangerous. Resource URLs can contain legitimate code, so Angular can't sanitize it, unlike the comments we had above.

If we are **sure** our link is safe and trustworthy (highly debatable in this example, but we'll ignore that for a moment), we can mark the resource as trusted after we do some cleanup to make the resource URL safer.

> Remember, we should only use the `bypassSecurityTrust...` methods if we know the value is trustworthy. You bypass the built-in security mechanisms and open yourself to security vulnerabilities!

> Instead of using the entire video URL based on the external party's API response, we'll construct the URL by defining the video host URL within our app and appending the video's ID that we get back from the external party's API response. This way, we aren't entirely reliant on a potentially untrustworthy value from a third party, and we'll have some measure of ensuring we're not injecting malicious code into the URL. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead of using the entire video URL based on the external party's API response, we'll construct the URL by defining the video host URL within our app and appending the video's ID that we get back from the external party's API response. This way, we aren't entirely reliant on a potentially untrustworthy value from a third party. Instead, we'll have some measure of ensuring we're not injecting malicious code into the URL. 
```
2 sentences for readability

Then we'll mark the video URL as trusted and bind it in the template. Your `VideoComponent` changes to this:

```ts
@Component({
  selector: 'app-video',
  template: `
    <iframe [src]="safeLinky" width="800px" height="450px"
  `
})
export class VideoComponent {

  // pretend this is from an external source
  public videoId = '12345';
  public safeLinky!: SafeResourceUrl;

  constructor(private sanitizer: DomSanitizer) {
    this.safeLinky = sanitizer.bypassSecurityTrustResourceUrl(`//videolink/embed/${this.videoId}`)
  }
}
```

Now you'll be able to show trailers of the K-Dramas on your site in an `iframe` in a much safer way.

> It can't be stressed enough. Ensure you trust the values before bypassing the out-of-the-box security protections you get from Angular!

Great! So we're done! Not quite. There are a couple of things to note.

> ### Use Ahead-of-time (AOT) compilation for extra security

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Use Ahead-of-time (AOT) compilation for extra security
```
```suggestion
### Use ahead-of-time (AOT) compilation for extra security
```
Angular docs site has it lowercase :)

On the flip side, the other form of compilation is Just-in-time (JIT). JIT was the default for older versions of Angular. JIT compiles code for the browser on the fly, and this process skips Angular's built-in security protection, so stick with using AOT.

### Don't concatenate strings to construct templates

Angular trusts template code and only escapes values defined in the template using interpolation. So if you attempt something clever to circumvent the more common forms of defining the template for a component, you won't be protected. 

For example, you won't have Angular's built-in protections if you try to dynamically construct templates combining HTML with data using string concatenation or have an API whip up a payload with a template you somehow inject into the app. Your clever hacks with dynamic components might cause you security woes. 

### Beware of constructing DOM elements without using Angular templates

> Any funny business you might try using `ElementRef` or `Renderer2` is the perfect way to cause security woes for yourself. For example, you can pwn yourself if you try to do something like this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any funny business you might try using `ElementRef` or `Renderer2` is the perfect way to cause security issues. For example, you can pwn yourself if you try to do something like this.
```
word variation

```ts
@Component({
  selector: 'app-yikes',
  template: `
    <div #whydothis></div>
  `
})
export class YikesComponent implements AfterViewInit {

  @ViewChild('whydothis') public el!: ElementRef<HTMLElement>;
  
  // pretend this is from an external source
  public attack = '<img src=1 onerror="alert(\'YIKES!\')"';

  constructor(private renderer: Renderer2) { }

  public ngAfterViewInit(): void {
    
    // danger below!
    this.el.nativeElement.innerHTML = this.attack;
    this.renderer.setProperty(this.el.nativeElement, 'innerHTML', this.attack);
  }
}
```

> Something like this might be tempting in a fancy custom directive, but think again! Besides, interacting directly with the DOM like this isn't the best practice in Angular, despite any security issues it might have. You should always prefer creating and using Angular templates.

Reviewer: "despite" - i'm wondering if you mean "even beyond the security issues it might in the sentence:

 "... isn't the best practice in Angular, despite any security issues it might have."   
 
For "You should always prefer creating and using Angular templates." - Could you say: "Always use and create Angular templates when you can." - it seems just as opinionated, and more direct.

Author: Yes to both. I'll update, thanks!
